HUMAN 

Go to the nearest mirror and have a look. Maybe not the finest specimen,
but you'll suffice. :)

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: sense stealth, battle tactics

Max Stats: str - 18 int - 18 wis - 18 dex - 18 con - 18 cha - 18

Classes Allowed: Priest, Monk, DarKnight, Bard, Wizard, Druid Ranger,
Paladin, Swordsman, Assassin, Rogue, Pirate, Necromancer


ELVES 

Elves consider themselves to be 'firstborn'. Their long lifespan sometimes
makes them arrogant towards their distant human cousins. They have slender
lithe bodies with long, fair hair.

Alignment: Good
Innate Skills: Infravision, Tumble

Max Stats: str - 18  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 19  con - 17  cha - 18


Half-Elves 

Part human, part elf - they prefer to be called half elf rather than half 
human. They are often rejected both among the elves and the humans. They
share the long lifespan of the elves but have a more muscular body than
elves in general.

Alignment: Good
Innate Effects: Infravision
Innate Skills: Sense Passages

Max Stats:  str - 18  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 18

Classes Allowed: Priest, Bard, Wizard, Druid, Ranger, Paladin, Swordsman,
Warrior/Thief, Warrior/Cleric, Thief/Cleric, Warrior/Magic-User, 
Thief/Magic-User, Warrior/Thief/Cleric, Warrior/Thief/Magic-User, 
Warrior/Cleric/Magic-User


DWARF 

Don't make the mistake of calling them a dwarf. These short but stout people
have biceps like a maidens waist. And we are not talking about an elf maiden.
Stocky fellows who love beer, they are often described.  Besides that they
fancy gold and a good fight.
Alignment: Good
Innate Effects: Infravision

Max Stats: str - 20  int - 16  wis - 18  dex - 16  con - 20  cha - 17


GNOME 

Gnomes are distant cousins to the dwarves and halflings. They are of the
same height, but not as stocky as their fellow dwarves. They are however
not a trifle smarter than them.  They are often found aroung the world
trying to solve the most ridiculous problems.

Alignment: Good
Innate Effects: Infravision
Innate Skills: Hide

Max Stats:  str - 16  int - 20  wis - 18  dex - 20  con - 18  cha - 18

Classes Allowed: Priest, Swordsman, Rogue, Warrior/Thief, Thief/Illusionist, 
Warrior/Illusionist, Warrior/Thief/Illusionist, Warrior/Cleric/Illusionist


HALFLING 

These small people are often underestimated because of their size. That is
their advantage however. Most halflings are peace loving and lazy, seldom
leaving their village to roam among the 'giants', but there are young
adventurous ones that will lighten your purse if you don't watch out.


Alignment: Good
Innate Skills: Detect Evil, Hide, Accuracy

Max Stats: str - 16  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 20  con - 18  cha - 18


BARBARIAN 

Not known for their intelligence, barbarians can be your good friend in a
knock-down fight.


Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Berzerk, Intimidate

Max Stats: str - 19  int - 17  wis - 16  dex - 17  con - 19  cha - 18


HALF-ORCS 

These poor 'cretins' were born after the orc raids on human villages, and
are despised in general. They have the body of the orc and the brain of the
human. They are fierce fighters and thus sometimes accepted in the cities.

Alignment: Evil
Innate Skills: Resist Poison (+30), Regeneration

Max Stats: str - 19  int - 16  wis - 16  dex - 16  con - 18  cha - 16


HALF-OGRES 

Long ago the Irda was among the fairest people on the realms. Perverted by
evil magic, some have turned to the hideous Ogres. Some of them have
escaped this perversion to some degree though. Stronger than the general
human, the curse makes them little a dull-witted.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Tough Skin (-40 AC), Parrying

Max Stats: str - 18  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 18


Changelings 

A rare race whose origins are unknown. It is said they can shift into another 
form.

Alignment:  Neutral
Innate Effects: Regeneration
Innate Skills: Polymorph

Max Stats:  str - 16  int - 18  wis - 16  dex - 16  con - 16  cha - 16

Classes Allowed: All, except Necromancer


FAIRY 

Small with gossamer wings, these playful legendary people often try to find
someone to harass or joke with. They are extremely difficult to catch and
often magical. If you see one, befriend it or flee!

Alignment: Good
Innate Effects: Fly, Sanctuary

Max Stats:  str - 14  int - 20  wis - 18  dex - 20  con - 16  cha - 18

Classes Allowed: Wizard, Druid, Ranger, Warrior/Cleric, Thief/Cleric, 
Warrior/Thief/Mage


MINOTAUR 

Minotaurs have their own code of honor. The one still standing is the winner.
These bull-like creatures are extremely strong. Even unarmed they can
dismember you with their horns. Since their appearance is often intimidating
enough, they seldom use their wits.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Horn Butt, Intimidate

Max Stats: str - 20  int - 14  wis - 14  dex - 18  con - 20  cha - 16


RATMAN 

With cruel magic, an unknown god made the sewer rats larger and more
intelligent - ratmen. They are still considered to be vermin among the local
people though, but accepted by most.
Alignment: Evil
Innate Effects: Sneak
Innate Skills: Hide, Parrying

Max Stats: str - 18  int - 17  wis - 18  dex - 20  con - 17  cha - 17


DROW 

These cousins to the surface elves are feared for their cruelty. They dwell
in the darkness and have some innate magic abilities. They feel awkward out
in the sun since their eyes have long been adjusted to darkness.
Alignment: Evil
Innate Effects: Infravision, Detect Good

Max Stats: str - 18  int - 19  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 17


LIZARDMAN 

Of unknown origin, these creatures have been on the realm probably longer than
any other race. They usually avoid civilization and are hermits even among
themselves. Their size and fearful snapping tail makes them worthy opponents
indeed.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Tail Lash, Intimidate

Max Stats: str - 20  int - 16  wis - 17  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 16


GIANTS 

Giants are a race of humanoids, approximately 10-14 feet tall. Giants make
superb fighters because of their incredible strength, and reasonable clerics.
They'd make good thieves if all locks could be overcome by brute force,
but they still make damn good battering rams.

Alignment: Evil
Innate Skills: Intimidate, Extra Damage

Max Stats: str - 21  int - 14  wis - 16  dex - 14  con - 21  cha - 14


DRACONIANS 

Draconians are half-humanoid, half-dragon hybrid. Draconians make good
fighters, mages and thieves generally. All Draconians are large creatures,
with large wings on their backs which enable them to fly well for their
bulk.

Alignment: Evil
Innate Skills: Fly, Detect Good

Max Stats: str - 19  int - 17  wis - 16  dex - 17  con - 19  cha - 17


CENTAUR 

The Centaur is a half-man, half horse hybrid. Centaurs excel in classes
related to woodlands, and make decent bards and priests as well. Most
Centaurs are fond of good food and drinks, making them unpredictable and
a pain in the neck at times.

Alignment: Good
Innate Skills: Infravision, Regeneration

Max Stats: str - 19  int - 15  wis - 15  dex - 16  con - 20  cha - 18


AARAKOCRA 

A race of intelligent bird-men who live only among the highest mountain
peaks. They have a wingspan of nearly 20 feet, and the males have very
colorful plumage. Aarakocra are strong swift fliers, and use this to a
great advantage. As a race they have only recently come into contact
with humans and their ilk.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Fly, Beak Dive

Max Stats: str - 17  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 19  con - 17  cha - 18


ALAGHI 

A race of forest-dwelling humanoids with barrel chests, short legs, and
long powerful arms. Alaghi are covered from head to toe with long thick
hair. They stand well over 6 feet tall and weigh more than 300 pounds.
They are a shy and peaceful race with a driving curiosity - it is this 
curiosity that has brought them out of hiding recently to join the other
races of Mystical.

Alignment: Good
Innate Effects: Beastial Strength (+4 Damroll) 
Innate Skills: Hide

Max Stats:  str - 20  int - 16  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 18

Classes Allowed: Druid, Ranger, Swordsman, Warrior/Cleric, Warrior/Thief, 
Thief/Cleric, Warrior/Thief/Cleric


BUGBEAR 

Generally thought to be a race of "monsters". Bugbears stand about 7 feet in 
height with very muscular frames. They have thick hides and coarse dark hair. 
Most Bugbears live by plundering and ambush, taking slaves and eating 
anything they can kill. Some unusual representatives of the species who 
struggle to control their vicious temperment and natural inclination to bully 
others have been recently observed consorting in the towns and villages of 
Mystical.

Alignment:  Evil
Innate Effects: Infravision, Beastial Strength (+4 damroll)

Max Stats:  str - 19  int - 17  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 17

Classes Allowed: Priest, Assassin, Swordsman, Rogue, Warrior/Thief, 
Warrior/Cleric, Thief/Cleric, Warrior/Thief/Cleric


BULLYWUG 

Bipedal frog-like amphibians, usually inhabiting swamps, are strong swimmers
and equally comfortable in or out of water. They are covered with a smooth
green hide with huge frog-like faces and bulging eyes. They do not actually
walk, as such, but hop.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Swim, Hide, Cat Eyes

Max Stats: str - 18  int - 17  wis - 18  dex - 19  con - 18  cha - 16


FLIND 

Flinds are a sort of cross between a hyena and a human. They are covered 
with mangy brown fur, with bestial muzzles and long muscular limbs. Flinds
tend to be organized and less savage than most humanoids. Still, they are
quick to violence, but are more likely to consider the consequences first, 
then plan a careful attack later.

Alignment:  Evil
Innate Skills: Hide, Rabid Bite

Max Stats:  str - 19  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 17

Classes Allowed: Priest, DarKnight, Swordsman, Rogue, Warrior/Thief, 
Warrior/Cleric, Warrior/Thief/Cleric


GIFF 

A race of hulking, powerfully muscled mercenaries that resemble bipedal
hippopotami. Giff are not known as towers of intellect, but they are strong
and loyal. Giff society honors most the fighting prowess of an individual.
Thus, they are some of the greatest warriors in the history of Mystical.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Effects: Resist Magic (+30), Regeneration

Max Stats: str - 20  int - 17  wis - 18  dex - 17  con - 19  cha - 18


GITHZERAI 

A race of thin and gaunt people, with sharp features and thin faces. They 
are nomadic by nature, with no known homeland, but are fiercely loyal to 
each other. Where they come from has become a bit of a mystery on Mystical 
- if the Githzerai know, none of them are talking.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Fade

Max Stats:  str - 18  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 18

Classes Allowed: Monk, DarKnight, Wizard, Assassin, Swordsman, Rogue, 
Warrior/Magic-User, Thief/Magic-User, Warrior/Thief/Magic-User


GNOLL 

Gnolls are a race of hyena-like scavengers, with a disposition to match.
They are among the most chaotic of all the races of Mystical, finding it 
hard to see past the moment. Some members of the race do try to overcome 
their short tempers, and natural tendency to lie, cheat, and steal.

Alignment: Evil
Innate Skills: Unfair Fight, Rabid Bite

Max Stats:  str - 19  int - 17  wis - 18  dex - 18  con - 18  cha - 17

Classes Allowed: Priest, DarKnight, Swordsman, Rogue, Warrior/Thief


WEMICS 

Wemics are centaur-like creatures with the bodies of lions and the torso
of humans. Wemics are nomads and never build a permanent home. Wemics are
a very warlike race of people, they are also extremely curious about the
world.

Alignment: Neutral
Innate Skills: Pounce

Max Stats: str - 18  int - 18  wis - 18  dex - 17  con - 19  cha - 19